docs/QuickStart.md, before:

# Quick Start

Having all [requirements](README.md#requirements) set, here you can find how to quickly build and run the application.

## Table of contents

- [Build](#build)
- [Execute](#execute)
  - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Windows](#windows)
  - [Linux](#linux)
- [Distribution](#distribution)
- [Tests](#tests)

## Build

Usually available build modes are `Debug`, `Release`, and `RelWithDebInfo`.

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
cmake -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -B build/debug
cmake --build build/debug
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
cmake -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -B build/release
cmake --build build/release
```

On macOS Xcode should be used as generator via `-GXcode`. For example creating a release build with XCode.

```shell
# Using Xcode
cmake -GXcode -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -B build/xcode
cmake --build build/xcode
```

## Execute

When not running through an [IDE like CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion), the built application can be run by
directly executing the generated binary.

### macOS

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
./build/debug/src/app/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
./build/release/src/app/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

To run a **debug** build created **with Xcode**:

```shell
./build/xcode/src/app/Debug/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

To run a **release** build created **with Xcode**:

```shell
./build/xcode/src/app/Release/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

### Windows

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
build/debug/src/app/App.exe
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
build/release/src/app/App.exe
```

### Linux

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
./build/debug/src/app/App
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
./build/release/src/app/App
```

## Distribution

To bundle the application and create a distribution package CPack is used. Before executing CPack
a [release build needs to be generated](#build).

```shell
cpack --config build/release/CPackConfig.cmake
```

## Tests

On any [generated build](#build) tests can be executed by using CTest, e.g. a Debug build:

```shell
ctest --test-dir build/debug
```

## Preview

Here a preview of the app running on macOS, Windows, and Linux (Ubuntu), in that order.

![A screenshot of the app running on macOS](assets/app_macos.png)

![A screenshot of the app running on Windows](assets/app_windows.png)

![A screenshot of the app running on Ubuntu](assets/app_ubuntu.png)

***

Next up: [Where is What?](WhereIsWhat.md)

Commit message:

Make CMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES a cache variable and update docs

docs/QuickStart.md, after:

# Quick Start

Having all [requirements](README.md#requirements) set, here you can find how to quickly build and run the application.

## Table of contents

- [TL;DR](#tldr)
- [Build](#build)
- [Execute](#execute)
  - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Windows](#windows)
  - [Linux](#linux)
- [Distribution](#distribution)
- [Tests](#tests)

## TL;DR

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Workflow presets are only available in CMake version 3.25 and up.

The quickest way possible to get an actual distributable from zero is using the available CMake workflows. For Linux and
Windows:

```shell
cmake --workflow --preset dist
```

And for macOS with Xcode:

```shell
cmake --workflow --preset xcode-dist
```

## Build

Usually available build modes are `Debug`, `Release`, and `RelWithDebInfo`.

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
cmake -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -B build/debug
cmake --build build/debug
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
cmake -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -B build/release
cmake --build build/release
```

On macOS Xcode should be used as generator via `-GXcode`. For example creating a release build with XCode. It is also
necessary to specify the Apple architecture via `CMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES`, for example for a universal executable using
the value `x86_64;arm64"`.

```shell
# Using Xcode, create universal executable
cmake -GXcode -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES="x86_64;arm64" -B build/xcode
cmake --build build/xcode --config Release
```

## Execute

When not running through an [IDE like CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion), the built application can be run by
directly executing the generated binary.

### macOS

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
./build/debug/src/app/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
./build/release/src/app/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

To run a **debug** build created **with Xcode**:

```shell
./build/xcode/src/app/Debug/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

To run a **release** build created **with Xcode**:

```shell
./build/xcode/src/app/Release/App.app/Contents/MacOS/App
```

### Windows

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
build/debug/src/app/App.exe
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
build/release/src/app/App.exe
```

### Linux

To run a **debug** build:

```shell
./build/debug/src/app/App
```

To run a **release** build:

```shell
./build/release/src/app/App
```

## Distribution

To bundle the application and create a distribution package CPack is used. Before executing CPack
a [release build needs to be generated](#build).

```shell
cpack --config build/release/CPackConfig.cmake
```

## Tests

On any [generated build](#build) tests can be executed by using CTest, e.g. a Debug build:

```shell
ctest --test-dir build/debug
```

## Preview

Here a preview of the app running on macOS, Windows, and Linux (Ubuntu), in that order.

![A screenshot of the app running on macOS](assets/app_macos.png)

![A screenshot of the app running on Windows](assets/app_windows.png)

![A screenshot of the app running on Ubuntu](assets/app_ubuntu.png)

***

Next up: [Where is What?](WhereIsWhat.md)
